Earlier we saw how useful sets were and maps are equally important because they gave us another way
to handle data and data structures within Javascript.
So let's take a look at.
We're going to use that same array that we used earlier and I'm not going to get rid of those console
logs and I will keep in the remove duplicate function so we can do some comparison between the functionality.
So let's set up a brand new variable and we'll call it map array and we're going to take in that my
array and what we're going to do to it.
We're going to map it out.
And so this is just the method of map.
So this is available with ESX.
So function.
And let's take whatever the current value is of the première that's being passed in.
And first of all it's this console log it out.
So a console log.
A It will take a closer look at that within the console.
So when we map it out.
Look what happens we've got a whole listing of all the values that we had within our array.
So basically whenever.
So we've not today.
And each one of them has its own line so it automatically loops through all of those values and we can
see them being returned back there within the console.
So basically what that means that if we wanted to multiply all of those values within the array and
return it with with brand new values we can take the values of A and we can multiply it.
So if we want to multiply them by 10 we can really easily do that within this type of format because
it's already mapped out and we're taking that argument value and we can multiply it by 10 and list that.
So next thing that we want to do is let's console log out whatever's available in my array so move that
console log over there.
And now we see that we've loop through all of the values really easily that were contained within this
array and we multiplied by 10 and we simply returned back a brand new array.
And you can see there's a lot of use for this and a lot of things that we might have struggled with
before that we've got the ability to really make use of this functionality.
And just like we were creating brain new sets we can also create a new map.
So we'll call it my map and new.
So we're creating a new map object and then now we can add information into it.
So my math and let's set some values contained into it and we can do it as we do normally.
So if we want to do let's do hello world.
So do hello we're going to add a few string values into it and then let's take a look in the console
and see what happens.
Now so see how this gets presented within the data structure.
So let's let's Lague my map into the console refresh it and we see that we've got basically hello and
we've got the arrow there to world.
So the way that it's working is it's similar to what we saw with objects where we've got these paired
values.
So let's go ahead and do a name so do my name and this time let's just put in another string value in
there.
So put a name in there and let's refresh that one more time.
So now we see we've got both of those entries in there and we also have a size.
We have the length we can get all of this information back and now the really cool thing about it is
that we can work with similar or similar to what we did with sets where if we want to delete something
out of it I could do my map and do delete.
So use the delete method and in order to delete it we need to identify it this way and then we'll log
out my map or console log it out afterwards.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
So using that key.
So essentially this is the key and that's the value we're able to identify it by the key and it simply
delete it.
If we don't want it within that entry any more.
So what happens if we try to do two of them.
So we saw earlier that and we're going to get a comment delete.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
Do you think we can have duplicates or what do you think we're going to get an output of the console.
OK so we saw how that worked.
But what if we all should want to retrieve the value of Halo.
So we know that we can access it by the key.
And instead of has Let's do get and we need to identify the key.
So if I did.
Hello I get world if I do my name I get Laurence.
So now let's refresh it.
And there we go.
So we can't return back the value that's associated with the key.
There's a lot of power here and I want you to try it for yourself as well.
So open up your editor and go ahead and create a brand new map add some values into the map.
Also try to add in some duplicate delete out some of those values by using delete and then also return
back and retrieve back some of those properties and values and check to see if that has a key value
and also then if it does then you can return that value and output it within your con..
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you some even more cool things that you can do with maps.
So I hope you had an opportunity to try that out for yourself.
And I'm going to simply copy in an object to that we had before.
So this is where we're building out that shopping cart.
We have dvar.
So let's update this to let items.
And we've got a bunch of items in there and let's console log items so it can take a closer look at
this object.
So it's basically an array with a bunch of objects in there.
So we want to actually get access to the content that's contained within there.
And
this is something that can be done with maps.
So just as we saw maps and we saw sets and we saw the power to it let's create a variable So this is
just going to be our holder and it's going to hold all of the content of items.
And what we're going to do is we're going to map that out and we saw earlier when we not post an array
then we can actually pull out that information.
So let's let's do that as well.
So we're going to add in a function here and we're going to list through all the items of the primer
that we're passing in is items we're getting it from the items or race that doesn't have to be called
the same.
But just to be consistent let's call it the same.
And let's return back the items and if we only want to get the name out of this array object so we want
to create a new holder and we want to have it holder names.
So let's refresh that.
And we should actually.
OK let's set this to let And let's console log what Holder names
so Consolo holder names.
So what do you think we're going to get back within.
Holder names.
Let's refresh it and we'll take a look.
So we actually get back all of the names so we're loop through all of those items within the array and
we return back the ones.
So the current item so items and we return back the object value of name.
So this is a quick and easy way to really parse through some of that data.
When we're dealing with a lot of these big data structures when we've got these huge Jason objects or
these arrays with objects in them and this is a quick and easy way to return back information.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and this this one here this array here this came from
one of the earlier exercises were building the shopping cart.
So instead of the names what I want to return back is all of the costs so go through the same thing
that we've done earlier instead of Holder names to hold her costs and return back all of the costs within
the consul.
So let's see let's try that out.
And Holder names so do hold her costs
and same thing where we're mapping out the item and we're just simply returning back costs.
So this was a really easy exercise because we literally we have it right there as well.
So now we can return back all of the costs we can loop through all of that data and make use of the
costs.
So another thing that we saw earlier is that we can really update these functions.
So let's try to do that.
Let's incorporate that that we've got that new function capability where we've got those fat arrows
and we don't need to actually always write the function.
So let's do that now.
So let's update this and we're passing in items.
So that's the argument that we're passing in and we're using the fat arrow to represent the the actual
the actual function the work function and we know that if we don't have any other parameters it's simply
going to return that information back.
So we're really simplifying this and this is why it's great to get really familiar with the brand ESX
syntax because you can start combining it together and doing a whole lot more.
So let's refresh it.
And that was just a quick exercise to update the way that we're writing functions into the ESX format.
So we really simplified all of that code into essentially one line of code where we can pull back that
data that's contained within that object array.
So next thing is I want you to try that for yourself.
So take that function that you created earlier to pull back all of the costs and update it using the
fat arrow.
And from what we learned earlier how we can really condense that function statement into a more simpler
format.
So go and try that it for yourself.